# gsocprojects

# Project 1: Interactive Template Tool for 2D and 3D STEM Learning

# What is the project?

Benetech is proposing a 2017 Google Summer of Code project that aims to make interactive templates available on a website so that instructors can dynamically input key data to generate customized models that provide learners with interactive objects that facilitate mastery of key concepts. Such a web-based tool could provide an easier mechanism for educators to produce 2D and 3D physical objects for set categories such as: pie charts, maps, Venn Diagrams, physics circuits, and geometric figures. The goal is to provide a web-based interface that connects to various resources including our existing Repository-Registry of Accessible Images (RRAI).

Producing 2D and 3D tactile graphics has typically been a highly technical and time-intensive process that requires specialization in alternative media production. This project aims to provide guided, web-based templates that open up the production of alternative resources to a broader group of educators. The pre-defined templates builds in best practice guidelines and expertise based on research previously generated by the Benetech’s DIAGRAM Center community. In addition to building a front-end mechanism to input specific data to help render these models digitally, we also aim to make connectors to a .stl library that allows these files to be printed using a 3D printer. 

# Why this project?

In 2016, Benetech designed and built the Repository-Registry of Accessible Images (RRAI), a collective image repository that makes accessible educational resources available in more mediums (e.g., videos, simulations, audio descriptions, 2D/3D models). While early users have provide positive feedback about this digital collection of resources, some have commented on the criticality and inability to create variations of basic images and diagrams. For example, while a single standard deviation model might be used to introduce a concept, students cannot be expected to fully comprehend this concept without additional variations to practice and test on. 

One size does not fit all when it comes to education — learners span a wide range of backgrounds and represent an even broader set of needs and preferences. Fortunately, technology is making it easier, faster, and cheaper to produce educational resources including models and manipulatives that students can interact with. This not only supports students with specific disabilities that require alternative mediums for learning, but also caters to the various learning styles and needs of individuals.

# Details on technical needs

* Strong Javascript
* Familiarity with Java
* Basic HTML, CSS
* Familiarity with databases such as PostgreSQL
* RRAI repository: https://github.com/benetech/RRAI

Additional resources that might be helpful:
- http://www.openscad.org/index.html: 3D CAD modeler
- Wolfram\: add on for graphic rendering capabilities and .STL generator
- Craftml.io: tool that provides a front-end interface for users to input key data then generate customized models; this tool is not open source and encountered problems with printing the generated files

#What impact are we hoping to have?

We are hoping to grow the collection of accessible tactile resources available in an existing image repository. Make it possible for educators to produce customized 2D and 3D learning objects in the area of STEM (science, technology, engineering, mathematics), which would otherwise not be available due to the expensive and time-intensive requirements involved in production.

